---
title: "SonarDuino"
date: 2023 Dec
location: "New York, US"
---

"SonarDuino" is an innovative project at the forefront of robotics, with a primary focus on the development of a 360-degree radar system designed for advanced object detection. The project aims to revolutionize the capabilities of locomotion robots by equipping them with the ability to precisely detect the boundaries and obstacles within their surroundings.

Key Components:
Arduino Mega:

Serves as the central processing unit, facilitating the execution of code and providing control over connected components.
Prototyping Boards:

Essential for organizing and connecting various project components, ensuring efficient and effective prototyping.
Servo Motors:

Enables the rotation of ultrasonic sensors, allowing for a comprehensive 360-degree view of the robot's environment.
Ultrasonic Sensors:

Critical components responsible for distance measurement and accurate object detection, forming the backbone of the radar system.
Documentation:

Draws inspiration from the renowned "Arduino Radar Project" by Dejan from "How to Mechatronics."
Utilizes the Adafruit-GFX-Library and Adafruit_SSD1306 to incorporate advanced display functionalities into the project documentation.
Project Objectives:
Enhancing Robot Navigation:

Empowers locomotion robots with the ability to detect and navigate around obstacles, improving overall mobility.
360-Degree Surveillance:

Provides a complete and continuous view of the surroundings, ensuring comprehensive object detection from all angles.
Open-Source Collaboration:

Encourages collaboration and contributions from the community by utilizing open-source principles and building upon existing projects.
Acknowledgments:
The "SonarDuino" project acknowledges the inspiration derived from the "Arduino Radar Project" by Dejan from "How to Mechatronics." The incorporation of Adafruit-GFX-Library and Adafruit_SSD1306 enhances the project's documentation and display functionalities.

More information can be found in this [repo](https://github.com/shantanu-ghodgaonkar/NYU_Sonarduino).
